GPTransmissionSpectra ---

This code detrends lightcurves and generates transmission spectra given data
either (1) in a pickle file in the output format of tepspec or (2) given
lightcurves and a set of external parameters. To use it you need:

- MultiNest
- batman
- george

The code fits the lightcurve simultaneously using a transit model, the
comparison stars using PCA and a gaussian process with a multi-dimensional
squared exponential kernel (or a Matern 3/2; for this, simply run the code
adding the flag `--matern`), which takes time, FWHM, airmass, trace position,
sky flux, and shift in wavelength of the trace as inputs in the case of output
in the tepspec format. If this is not the input format, the user defines which
external paraemters to include instead.

USAGE ---

To use the code is simple:

<<<<<<< HEAD
1. *(a)* If the input is going to be given by the user with the tepspec input
format, put the .pkl file of outputs in a folder which has the same name as the
target in the pickle file. Let's assume the name of the target in my pickle
file is `WASP19`. Then, my pickle file (say, named `w19_140322.pkl`) should be
in the folder `WASP19/w19_140322.pkl`. *(b)* If you have a set of lightcurves
and external parameters, first create a folder called "outputs". Inside it,
create a folder with the name of your target (in our case, `WASP19`). Inside
this folder, create different folders for different datasets (e.g., different
nights) of the same target --- in the case of our example, we should create a
folder called `w19_140322`. Inside each of these, put your external parameters
in a file called eparams.dat, so that each row is the value of the external
parameters at different times, and each (space separated) column is a different
external parameter. Inside this folder, create two extra folders: a folder
called `white-light` and a folder called `wavelength`. Inside the `white-light`
folder, create a file called `lc.dat` which contains the data for the target
lightcurve: in its first column the time, the second the (mean-substracted)
*magnitude* (-2.51 x log10(flux)) and the third column contains zeros. Create
another file called `comps.dat` where you input the (mean-substracted)
*magnitude* of the comparison stars; one comparison star per column. Insite the
`wavelength` folder, create one different folder for each wavelength bin named
as `wbin0`, `wbin1`, etc., and inside save the (wavelength-dependant)
lightcurves of the target and comparison stars in the same format as was done
in the `white-light` folder.
=======
1. *(a)* If the input is going to be given by the user with the tepspec input format, put the .pkl file of outputs in a folder which has the same 
   name as the target in the pickle file. Let's assume the name of the target in my pickle file is `WASP19`. Then, my pickle file (say, named 
   `w19_140322.pkl`) should be in the folder `WASP19/w19_140322.pkl`. *(b)* If you have a set of lightcurves and external parameters, first 
   create a folder called "outputs". Inside it, create a folder with the name of your target (in our case, `WASP19`). Inside this folder, 
   create different folders for different datasets (e.g., different nights) of the same target --- in the case of our example, we should create 
   a folder called `w19_140322`. Inside each of these, put your external parameters in a file called eparams.dat, so that each row is the value 
   of the external parameters at different times, and each (space separated) column is a different external parameter. Inside this folder, create 
   two extra folders: a folder called `white-light` and a folder called `wavelength`. Inside the `white-light` folder, create a file called 
   `lc.dat` which contains the data for the target lightcurve: in its first column the time, the second the (median-substracted) *magnitude* 
   (-2.51 x log10(flux)) and the third column contains zeros. Create another file called `comps.dat` where you input the (median-substracted) 
   *magnitude* of the comparison stars; one comparison star per column. Insite the `wavelength` folder, create one different folder for each 
   wavelength bin named as `wbin0`, `wbin1`, etc., and inside save the (wavelength-dependant) lightcurves of the target and comparison stars 
   in the same format as was done in the `white-light` folder. 
>>>>>>> GPTS/master

2. Create an options file for the white-light lightcurve (see the
`wl_options.dat` file for an example with WASP-19, `wl_options_h5.dat` for
HATS-5), which will contain the priors for the fit (assumed to be truncated
gaussians). If your input is not in the tespect format (i.e, you followed step
*(b)* in 1.), the `datafile` parameter should be still filled with the .pkl
extension (even though you don't have a pickle file --- this is just to allow
backcompatibility of the code). In the case of our example, it should be
`WASP19/w19_140322.pkl`.

3. Run the white-light analysis by doing `python run_wl_analysis.py -ofile
youroptionsfile.dat`; if you don't have a pickle file in the format of tepspec,
then add the --nopickle flag (i.e., do `python run_wl_analysis.py -ofile
youroptionsfile.dat --nopickle`). This will run the white-light analysis. Once
is done, the results will be outputted in a folder named `outputs`.

4. When the white-light fit ends, if you used the tepspec pickle mode, the
`outputs` folder will have a `white-light` folder, inside of which you will
find a `results.dat` file. If you didn't, these same files will be written
there. This contain the posterior parameters of the best-fit. Inside
`white-light` there will also be folders named `PCA_n`, where `n` is the number
of PCA components used for each fit (the code tries them all, and then
bayesian-model average the results to obtain the `results.dat` file); inside
each `PCA_n` folder there will be a `detrended_lc.dat` file with the detrended
lightcurves (first column is time, second detrended lightcurve, third noise on
the detrended lightcurve and fourth the best-fit transit model) and a
`model_lc` with the raw magnitude of the target and the full systematic model
(i.e., the full model minus the transit). Note you can join the data in these
two files to generate the full model fitted to the data.

5. Use the `results.dat` to create an options file for the wavelength-dependant
   fits, where every parameter of the transit will be fixed except for the
limb-darkening parameters and `p=rp/rs` (and, of course, the GP and PCA
components of the fit). See the `wavelength_options_w19.dat` file for an
example. Note: if analysing multiple nights, consider using `results.dat`
values averaged over all nights.

6. Run the code by doing either `python run_wavelength_analysis.py -ofile
yourNEWoptionsfile.dat` if you want to perform PCA + GP on each wavelength
range, or `python run_wavelength_cmc_analysis.py -ofile yourNEWoptionsfile.dat
-wofile youroptionsfile.dat` if you want to run Common Mode Correction (CMC) }
GP, where `youroptionsfile.dat` is the same white-light option file created for
step 3 above. Here, if your input format is not the tepspec pickle, you can use
the --nopickle flag again. Here, for the common-mode correction, only the first
star in the list of your `yourNEWoptionsfile.dat` options file will be used;
the white-light lightcurve of the target and that comparison star will be
divided, the best-fit transit lightcurve from step 3 and 4 will be divided to
that resulting lightcurve, and this will be the common-mode correction signal.
This signal, in turn, will be divided to the resulting lightcurve of the
division between the target and the same comparison on every wavelength, and
this lightcurve will be fitted directly without the PCA component (but with a
zero-point and a GP).

7. Once it runs, generate the transmission spectrum by running
`python compile_transpec.py -ofile yourNEWoptionsfile.dat`. This will be saved
as `transpec.dat` inside the outputs folder of your target lightcurve.

TODO ---
- Try other kernels?
